The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) protects people with disabilities from discrimination in all aspects of public life.  Banks are considered “places of public accommodation” under Title III of the ADA.  Banks have obligations to make reasonable modifications to policies and practices so that people with disabilities have equality of opportunity when using banking services.  

PCOE is the printing center of excellence within one of the Big 4 nationwide financial institutions named Too Big To Fail Bank(TBTF).  PCOE provides printing services that print statements, notices, and marketing materials. They have the capability to print regular non-Braille letters in house (with full control of the printing software) and now Braille which is done by an external vendor (through a REST interface), required by ADA.  

PCOE has done such a fabulous job that they are ranked #1 in cost, quality, and speed within the banking industry.  The leadership of the Too Big To Fail Bank wants to offer statement printing as a service to the regional banking community to further achieve the economy of scale and lower down the cost of printing per page.  This initiative will transform PCOE from a cost center to a profit center, and transform TBTF Bank to become a banking platform company, defending against the offenses of the new FinTech companies.

To print for the bank’s internal legacy accounting system is easy, as Braille or not is a customer preference which is known internally in the bank.  To print for the external system is even easier, as although the customer is unknown for PCOE, the customer print preference is part of the message received from the printing service customers.  However, to prove that the statements are printed or not, PCOE is required to have a way to keep the customer statement’s printing status and printing timestamp.

The statement printing process, regardless of the print preference or the type of the customers, must be fast, accurate, and reliable to keep the compliance risk low for all the banks involved.
